TERRITORIAL ENTERPRISE
Wednesday. . . . . . . . . . April 30, 1884
A LOST BUT TOUGH LITTLE BOY
Out All Night in a Violent Snow Storm, and Found Next Day Under a Sagebush, Chewing Gum.
[Correspondence of the Enterprise.]
AUSTIN, Nev., April 27, 1884.
Saturday afternoon being tolerably pleasant, the family of Richard Husband, living in the upper part of Austin, together with a few friends, went over to Marshall Canyon, a mile or so south of town, on a sort of picnic excursion. Little Dicky Husband, about seven years of age, with some of the other children of the party, after a while strayed around the hillsides and ravines in search of wild flowers, and somehow he got separated from the rest and they came in without him. Search was immediately made, but he could not be found. There being indications of stormy weather, the women and children returned to town, and, the alarm being given, quite a strong party of men started out to assist in the search for the missing lad.
ON TRACK.
They met an Indian, who told them, in response to their eager inquiries, that he had seen a little white boy running along a hillside away to the southward, crying, and when he went toward him the little fellow was frightened and ran faster, screaming with terror. Snow was then falling, and although they found his track and followed for a mile or so, they soon list it in the gathering darkness and increasing snow. They followed on in the same direction among the foothills of the Toiyabe range, and all night, in one of the heaviest snow storms of the season, they wandered over the rocky slopes and through steep ravines, with no success whatever. When daylight came the snow was several inches in depth, and
THE STORM STILL RAGING.
Scattering themselves over the country in all likely directions the eager searchers pressed onward, hoping to find the little wanderer still alive. Meanwhile, other parties from town, on foot and on horseback, also started out to assist in the search, for by this time the alarm was general. The mother of the little boy was nearly distracted, and could hardly be restrained from also going forth out into the wild storm and deep snow to look for her darling.
RESCUED AND ALIVE.
About 9 o'clock this forenoon a portion of the first searching party suddenly saw what they were after. The little fellow stood by a large sagebrush on the hillside not far distant, but when he saw them he dodged down out of sight. Hurrying thither they found him crouching down on the ground beneath the sheltering bush, with both hands in his pockets, and apparently all right, except somewhat cold and uneasy, but on recognizing some of them he expressed his gladness to be found. He said when he strayed out of sight of the other children the evening before, and thought he was lost, he ran as hard as he could along the first path he could see and did not stop till he got to where they found him, and crawled under the sagebrush, out of the snow, completely exhausted. One of the men noticing that he was chewing something, said: "What are you eating sagebrush for, bub? Are you hungry?" "No," stoutly replied little Dicky, "I ain't a eating sagebrush,"
I'M A CHEWIN' MY GUM,
And I ain't hungry, neither." The lost little boy was carried triumphantly homeward, and is apparently not injured at all, except that he is pretty well tired out, and his little feet are sore. The place where he was found is within a mile and a half of Big Creek, over ten miles from Austin, therefore this youngster may be considered a tough, hardy specimen and not easily killed.
OTHER ITEMS.
A damp, heavy snowstorm prevailed last night and all day to-day, and this evening it bids fair to continue for another twenty-four hours. The sleighing is splendid, but nobody cares to enjoy it. Indeed the beautiful snow has become boringly wearisome.
As stated in my letter of the 11th instant, the Manhattan mill will start up for another long and prosperous run on the 1st of May. In fact the furnace will be lighted to-morrow, but it takes three or four days to get that huge old Stedefeldt furnace arrangement properly heated up for regular work.
ALF. DOTEN.